    Standing over the people of the recently destroyed kingdom, watching as the remaining towers and houses crumbled into dust. Hearing the slight murmurs and whimpers from the remains. The rest of the fleet spread out to finish the job. As we scoured through the kingdom’s remains. Scattering and tossing. Destroying and vaporizing. We discovered “THE AMULET OF POWER”. It layed deep beneath the fountain in the center of the kingdom.
    First you're probably wondering where we are. We are located in a star cluster in the Bin Wada solar region. The planet we inhabit(Snow Drifter 87) is under constant snowfall. There has been times where the group has been pulled into the air by a blizzard. They whirl around us creating massive snow boulders roughly 40 - 80 feet in diameter. When they die, or if we escape, we normally would have traveled a good 100,000 yards. The only way to repel blizzards and other forces of “EVIL” is with a force field or massive energy blast. 
    Due to our lack of power, we have collectively been trying to build our power sources. Our base is located at the bottom of the frozen ocean, 6,869 yards under the sea level. Being so low, we have remained hidden from the humans that attempt to roam the surface. Our current ways of collecting power includes steam systems that heat up the snow, river turbines, and from ourselves. It's quite an odd society we live in but we make do as we were programmed to. As the base’s power runs low, we lose the ability to produce more. Thus we frequently go out in search for more.
    The day we found THE AMULET OF POWER, we had raided 5 cities, and 37 kingdoms. We could have sustained ourselves for another month or so, after raiding the 5 cities. This had not fulfilled our need for power thus we continued our search. After the 32nd kingdom we had gained enough energy to sustain the base for approximately 4 years. With this much power, we could start to experiment and develop new power sources. Because we decided to experiment, we also wanted an extra supply in case something happened. As we went to collect our extra supply, I started to develop something I couldn't understand or control. It first took control over my lateral movements, then it gradually took over my upper movement and vocal outputs.
    I felt a warm empowering presence, as we destroyed more and more cities. When we arrived at the kingdom with THE AMULET OF POWER, I could no longer control my own movements. To make matters worse. I was still conscious. I arrived at the gate first. Slamming into it. As it fell, crushing the knights and guards behind it, we heard “Phlphpppp” coming from them. Dancing into the kingdom. Tremmors and terror came from throughout the civilians as they ran to safety. In the center a little girl and her family laid next to the fountain. As I stood over them, the little girls asked “why are you here?” Still unable to control myself, I replied “I am here for POWER!!”. Watching the family's response, made me realize that although humans are different, they are living as well. They curled up and backed away as if to hide. As I continued to watch them, they started to get anxious and jumpy, as they reacted to a knight sneaking up on me. The youngest stopped herself as she blurted “look.. o..u..”. Turning around to see, I jumped out of the way and the knight nearly hit the mother. Whatever had come over me had desperately wanted to fight, but I did not. Faced with the challenge to fight the knight, but also to regain my own control. With a swish of his sword, the knight continued to swing. Still having no control, I painfully took limb from limb off of the knight. Starting with his arms, I dislocated, shattered, and down right obliterated any remains of bone left in him.
    Slowly regaining control over speech and sensory inputs. I was able to stop myself from obliterating the family. I advised them to get out of the kingdom and to a safe location where they could hide at. At least for a while. I then asked “if you still trust me, I can help after my group leaves”. With worry and terror in their eyes, they replied “We have a bunker about 100 yards north of here, but how will we contact you?” I then disconnected my right index finger, gave it to Emilia the one that warned me. Showing them how to use the cloak and private locator, she gave me a hug and said “please hurry.” Helping them out of the kingdom before it was completely over run, I asked “Do you know where any of the power sources are.” “In the river and along the walls are turbines, on the top of the towers are snow panels, and there is some other source, but no one has known its location for ages.” replied the mother.
    Slowly losing control. I began to collect the turbines off the walls. The group had joined and taken control over the civilians. Not caring for the kingdom they started to demolish building after building. Insuring they had no way of restarting. I order the fleet to pile the collected supplies at the front gate. I then headed to the main power tower.
    Disconnecting the power junctions in the control panels. I was called out onto the overhang for more instructions. Standing over the people of the recently destroyed kingdom, watching as the fleet destroyed the remaining towers and houses. I order them to leave no trace left behind, except the fountain in the center. They started Destroying and vaporizing the debris. Hearing slight murmurs and whimpers, the rest of the fleet spread out to finish the job. As the humans tried to rebel and stop us, I also order them to take out the remaining humans. Once everything was gone. I noticed there was still power from somewhere. Confused where it could becoming from, I order them to destroy the fountain and tower. Deep beneath the fountain in the center of the kingdom. We discovered “THE AMULET OF POWER”. Its magnificent beauty and power, illuminated the entire kingdom and almost drove the fleet berserk. 
    In order to save the fleet, and forgetting I didn't have control over myself. I decided I would hold and protect it. I then order them to take the supplies back to the base. What we didn't understand or realize was why the amulet was so far under the kingdom. After the fleet left, and I was sure they wouldn’t follow, I started to Increase in height and strength. Confused why and how this was happening, I started to lose my own power of thought.
    Under my last will and power, I set a course to my finger and sent a message. It said “I will be arriving shortly, but I am no longer myself. Throughout today I have been losing control of my functions. I need your help understanding what is going on. I have sent my diagrams and instructions on how I was built. As I arrive, my finger will start to produce a beep, gradually getting louder the closer I get. When I arive, press the small flashing button on the bottom right, it will override all control and cut my power. Puting me in a sleeping state, where hopely I won't be able to do anything.
    Pursuing the course I laid in. I had lost all control. How or if I am still documenting this I don't know. I had been yanked into the biggest most fierce blizzard we have ever encountered. As I spun faster and faster, I could no longer see my arms, let alone the tip of my nose. What seemed like years had only been minutes. Then out of nowhere, it all stopped. Falling from 2,000 yards I hit head first on something that wasn't snow. Denting the back of my head and completely destroying my antenna. I regained consciousness, but couldn't feel anything.
    Laying there paralyzed. Wondering. Wishing. Waiting. I tried to contemplate what, why, or how I was infected. I kept reading and examining my code, searching for the variables or sections that were infected. Again trying to move. I got no response, not even the slightest movement. Eventually running low on power. I decided to divert the remaining power to my core processor, cutting my sensory inputs and preserving my conscious. Signing off for now.
.   .   .    .   .   .   .
    Blahm. Waking up in a new environment. I started to restore my reaming power. Regaining sensory inputs, starting with sight. I could feel A warm desk lamp hanging to the left above me. Focusing the blur and adjusting my color, I began to make out the view of a human. With his back toward me, I presume he is 5’ 3” has dirty dark silky blond hair. As he mumbled to himself, “Where did I put those” “No not here” “Are they over here”. He spotted that my eyes had opened, and were slowly following him. He stopped looking for whatever he was looking for, came over to me and asked “can you see?” Attempting to reply. I produced something of a high pitched ear bursting squeal. As I tried to adjust the frequency, I flashed a low battery warning. He noticed and went off. I hope he went to get a cord and docking station. 
    Waiting for a while, I fixed my vocal and visual settings. Nearing death. I shut my eyes to preserve what little power remained. Now understanding why I couldn’t move, I wondered how I could still feel things. Starting to charge, I reopened my eyes to see parts of my body hanging and laying on a table in front of us. The human walked around so I could see him,  asking what my name was I replied “krist JESUS”. He gave off a little chuckle, turning around to examine my broken antenna and dented skull plating. I asked him how he found me. He said “I was walking down one of my old hiking trails and found bits and pieces of a robotic body.” I picked a few of them up and put them in my pack, but as I was picking up the mechanical heart.” Giving the robot the thought of, I was the only one with a true mechanical heart. Was...is it mine? Did he make us? Where are we… am I ? Relistening to Gearlango’s (Char-lan-go’s) story. He said “I had noticed my old artistic signature wrapped around it, as if it were a protection, spell or a case built around it. I didn’t remember the design of the pieces, or even where the location would have been for me to make a heart.” Seemingly stopping there, I politely asked “what is your name?” 
    Frantically jumping to an immediate apology he said “I am so sorry. I forgot to introduce myself, I am Gearlango. I believe I am either your creator, or I helped in your making.“
    “Based on the parts I found it seems like you have done some upgrading. But a few of the things I found seem to have been made by me. I decided I would bring these back here to my lab, so I laid the ones I found or could bring back on foot, out over there.”
     Krist Jesus replied “Can you take me over there?” Proceeding to take me, Gearlango went to unplug the charging dock, I asked him “Do you know what we have done?” Standing back up with the cord in hand, he pick the docking station and myself up and carried us over to the other counter. As he crossed the room, he asked with confusion “what do you mean? What we have done? If you are referring to, leaving kingdoms and forming your own, gaining self awareness, defending for your own lives. Then yea I know what you guys have done. Is there something I missed?” Quickly jumping to a reply, I blurt out “Nope!” 
    Now over looking at the pieces Gearlango gathered, I noticed there was a piece here or there that didn’t belong to me. But for the most part I thought all my pieces were here. Gearlango went back to searching for something like when I first saw him. So I asked him “What are you searching for?” He gave a shrugged wave of his arm and replied lost of words “uuuh um ah, diagrams um schematics uh blueprints, something of instructions or notes.” I replied if I haven’t been damaged to badly, I can upload or project what diagrams and schematics I have.” Unsure of what to say and slowly agreeing he replied “su..re.. I guess we can give it a shot. It’s at least a place to start.”
    Looking at the pieces of mine, I tried to mentally see which section we had the most of. I had asked Gearlango to gather the pieces and put them in piles from head to toe. Slowly turning on and reformatting my projection modules, we decided to start with my feet and legs. Then gradually working our way up to my head. As we sorted the pile for my lower half, we were missing 37 parts, but were able to complete one leg and the bottom right and back center portions of my waist. We then continued through the piles until we could no longer assemble due to missing pieces. Though I wasn’t hole at the time, somehow, for some reason I felt at ease, peaceful, happy while I was around and with Gearlango. I felt… no, I know, that he understands me, he believes in me, he trust me, yet I have done nothing to earn it.
    As I watched Gearlango get drowsier and drowsier, I asked him if he would like to take a break and rest up till morning. He then agreed that it was probably for the best that he did get some rest. As he headed off to bed, I asked “do you have something I can look over or do to pass the time?” He ponder to himself looking at an empty wall, then went on down the hallway for about 5 minutes. When he had returned, he was carrying a metal case no bigger than a beer keg. Hesitatingly he opened it and slowly pulled out a triangular shaft. He then described and was a bit sceptical that it was still a prototype, but that he was willing to allow me to work on and test out his new antenna. Attaching it to where my old one fell off, was a bit difficult but he eventually got the correct adaptment built for me. He then prompted me with a demonstration and his notes and went off to bed.
    Waiting for day to come. I started to look over Gearlango’s notes to see if I could get a better understanding for this antenna’s capabilities. First booting and connections were super simple and fast. The GUI layout was a bit confusing and cluttered, but I can help work on that as I get use to the functions built into it. After sorting through and partially organizing the layout, I have found the ability to levitate, to transform, and to quantum tunnel. Not fully knowing what Gearlango has been working on, I continued to clean up the GUI and I looked for a history/edit log. The more I explored and experimented, the more it had to offer. I got so carried away, that it overwhelmed me. Losing track of time, it started to brighten up outside. I decided to do more work on the antenna latter.
    As the morning due struck the dawn broke grass, I prepared a list of tasks I thought might help get my body repaired faster. Not long after, was it that Gearlango got up to start his day, I provided him with personal time for a while, and I started to prepare my own demonstration on my findings/understanding of the possibilities this magnificent antenna could perform. As Gearlango started to wake up and interact more, I asked him about my outline for the day and what he wanted to do. After that he made himself some organic breakfast, and he had me try a new “ENERGY BAR” he had also been working on. While sampling the energy bar, I presented to him my view about the antenna. 
    After we finished eating, we went out to look for more of my body parts. Finding several parts, varying from quantum to Oberatie. We collected as much as we could then went off to lunch. While conversing at the restaurant my private locator activated. Forgetting I left my finger with the family form the Kingdom, it/I started to route directions In order to reconnect with it. I asked Gearlango if he would accompany me to find the family, in order to get my finger back, and to save the family. Agreeing to join me, I started to write a message to the family explaining who Gearlango is, and that I am no longer “INFECTED”. As we grew closer to my finger’s location, I told Gearlango the truth, and that we robots had done other stuff than just create our own kingdom. I told him about how I felt going to the kingdom, barging into the gate, killing the knight in front of the family, and how we destroyed every last bit of matte. 
    Upon arriving side story at the bunker, the family was no longer there. They left a note with my finger. The note read, “We heard other robotic voices above the bunker and got scared. We decided to take the secret tunnel to snowfall tower. Where my ------, “Paige” the pure goddess of snow, lives. She has the most beautiful snow white wings, and she is supper kind. 
    Taking my finger and the other spare parts we found before we came, we marked the bunkers location and went back to Gearlango's house. Back at his house, we separated and organized the pieces again. The next day, I then demonstrated and practiced what I have found out about the antenna. I tested the shape shifting while lighting the stove and preparing a breakfast for Gearlango. While he ate, I debugged the antenna, and we talked about how he first started working in in electronics and robotics. Assembling the parts, we completed my bottom half and repaired my skull. Still missing major parts to my body, I started to look through the remaining spare parts we have collected. Sketching out ways I could adapt them into a new body, I started to get curious what all Gearlango has built. Calling him over to review my scent he's and help me prepare the scraps, he again brought out more cases. We reassembled adjusted, and upgraded my body and added some final adjustments to the antenna and other upgrades.
    We then traveled back to the bunker in search for the family and secret tunnel. X-raying for the tunnel, we found that the bunker was far more advanced than it had seemed. Eventually finding the entrance, we had to speak this riddle then explain its meaning. “Haliphic mortiphinal anipalic mantinato hecro antaplastisma” it translates to “trust, love, loyalty allows for happiness”.
Traveling down the tunnel, we saw murals and photos of the family. The farther we went down the tunnel, the more we understood what they went through. As we exited the tunnel, I was more sure than ever that this family needed us, just as much as I needed them.
    Seeing the brightened road, and the illuminatingly vibrant and magnificent tower. I realized there was and is more to life than just gaining power and sustaining existence. As we were greeted into the stronghold, we met up with the family and “Paige”. “And by golly i do have to agree they are all beautiful and happy together.” As they settled us into the guest rooms in the palas, I tried to get to know them and explain what was happening when we first met. As we grew and looked for the cause, I had eventually gained their trust and loyalty. 2 days later, Gearlango and Jhepules (jch-nep-u-less), got engaged. With the blessing from “Paige” they got married the next day. Side story After we shared our findings and technology, they all agreed that all rights were reserved to Gearlango and I. Developing and advancing my abilities. Having to decide how or if I would rejoin in the robotic community. 
    Deciding that we should try to influence the other robots. We devised a plan to reestablish and renew the religion or base coding that we are to live in harmony with humans, our creators. and that we are to help spread, develop, and combined the knowledge and power around the planet. Taking a small klahn, including “Paige”, Gearlango, Jhepules, and a group of royal knights. 
    Off on our journey, I began to lose control again. The closer we got to the base, the closer we got to the lost “AMULET OF POWER”. The more rambunctious and evil I got, the harder it was going to be to persuade my robotic family that humans are safe, kind, grateful, and encouraging. They decided we would stop and set up a camp for the night. Allowing them to diagnose my random outburst of evil, and to rest, so they could follow and keep up easier. While Gearlango tried to diagnose me, he noticed my curtis kept getting hit with some sort of energy wave. Not having the proper tools to identify or counteract these energy waves, we headed to the nearest city or kingdom In hopes that they had a mechanic that could or was willing work with Gearlango. Arriving at the closest city. We were happily greeted again, even though they knew the reputation we robots have gave ourselves. The more I interact with humans, the more prominent and understanding I am of our base code/religion. 
    At the cities repair shop, we met James, the head mechanic. As James and Gearlango discussed what we have found and think to be the problem, I began to have second thoughts as to whether or not the other robots would accept me or the things/teachings I have discovered. A while after, James and Gearlango had prepared a prototype “armor/casing” that they believe will limit or stop the energy waves. Having no true way of testing it, we hoped for the best and continued to the base. Saying our goodbyes, and exchanging broadcasting signals, we went our separate ways. Returning to where we had noticed my out burst, the casing seemed to be working. Hastily closing the distance between us and the base, we or I noticed something familiar illuminating in bright orange and florescent red colors, off in the distance. Suggesting that we stop and rest for the last time before arriving, Gearlango and I went off to see if we could find whatever was glowing so beautifully.
    As we searched, I began to have thoughts, mean, evil, violently cruel, and downright insane thoughts. Slowly influencing me, I began to attack Gearlango. Unable to stop, I gave a off one last signal, telling Gearlango it was ok and probably best if he disabled me. While I was disabled, Gearlango found THE AMULET OF POWER, and almost immediately knew why I couldn't resist being under its influence. After upgrading myself and the casing, he installed the AMULET OF POWER, as my main power source and adapted my old power source to be a back up. Now fully protected and in control of the amulet, I could easily influence and control the rest of the robots.
    Arriving at the base’s entrance, we decided I should go first and they would wait for my signal. As I entered the main corridors, I called out for a base wide meeting. Ambushed by the horde of the group, I projected my journey and began my speech. Unintentionally using the amulet, it seemed extremely easy to influence my family. Fully having their trust, I gave the signal and the khlan joined me on the center stage. Congratulating. Thanking. Praising them. We gave them a true robotic welcome and accommodated living quarters for them, allowing them to visit and prosper as the creating god they are. 
    Years later, as more and more robots were enhanced, we began to surface and remix into the human’s societies. Keeping our independence, we helped advance the humans transportation and communication abilities. Allowing them to travel farther and faster than ever before. 
    On this note, I will leave you with what I have learned. First, don't jump to conclusions or judgements of others before you completely know and understand their story. Second, if there is true love and loyalty in a relationship, then no matter how bad you mess up, they will always be there for you. Third and final, forgive but don't always forget what others have done unto you, or what you have done unto them. I would like to thank those that helped me along my journey.

It started in 5th period... as I peered out the window, my view seemed to be diminishing, as a strangely dense fog lowered around the school. The intercom came on and in the background I faintly heard the words, “Bra Brains Arrrrrg,” then the intercom cut out. Before I knew it, the entire room across from us, the cafeteria, and the office had been completely taken over by zombies. The zombies then tried to get in the room from the cafeteria, as they got closer to opening the door. The teacher went to stop them, while the students barricaded the windows. Before they could barricade all of them, the teacher got infected and the students had to bail. I picked up one of the computers and threw it out an unbarricaded window. I then ran to the workshop in the back of the school. After climbing the fence, I then tried to climb the connex(a big metal storage container) but couldn't. Now in the school workshop, I collected a hand saw, fire extinguishers, some paint, batteries, and our group's robot. It's a small robot, but extremely fast. Then having to decide whether or not to wait on school grounds or to try and go back to the house. I had no way of knowing whether or not the rest of the city, the state, or the world had been affected. Then going back to the house for our farm, tools, and cars. I survived 3 more years until…. Continued


Favorite vacation location
Not really sure, don't get to go one many vacation. With a family of 7 it's a bit hard to plan/budget for vacation due to expenses/travel. If those weren't a problem, my favorite vacation would be Hawaii, being next to the 37 parallel, being in the heat, the green plant life, the vitamin sources from the sun and the overall community connection would make for a very enjoy able vacation. I have not been here yet but I can't handle the cold, I have only lived in areas with bad weather conditions, I like to swim/ being in/next to water and a beach, but the beaches I have been to are always rocky, cold, dark from clouds/forecast, sooner cold waters, etc. I also like to study/watch the weather/moon phases/pressure changes, because I believe it affects the human body, including muscles, bones, hormones, etc. Hawaii has a very interesting geography and location, allowing it to have several different weather conditions, depending on where you are. With its unique geography and climate, I would be able to go outside more often, because it would be a more suitable/enjoyable environment.


The fears of technology and human interaction brought about by the Enlightenment Revolution and enhanced during the Industrial Revolution has both advanced and hindered the development of medical machinery and human and artificial intelligence. Throughout history, several of the world's most genius minds and organizations have worked in cooperation to advance technology. “Thus, it is believed that the state of technology has caught up with human potential. Largely unhindered by technical constraint, we live in an age where technology is unlocking untapped areas of human creativity” (3-reasons). According to datamaran.com, we are entering into a 4th industrial revolution: “Starting with the Manufacturing Revolution and the development of factorization. Then the more advanced Industrial Revolution which brought about steam engines and transportation infrastructure. The third revolution being the Computer Age, with the digitization of production for a bigger globalization of economics. Finally, we are brought to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, characterized by the fusion of technology that is blurring the lines between the physical, digital, and biological spheres. It is marked by emerging technology breakthroughs in a number of fields, including robotics, artificial intelligence, blockchain, nanotechnology, quantum computing, and biotechnology.”(3-reasons)
What distinguishes the advancements of the 4th Industrial Revolution from those of the Industrial Revolution is that back in the 1800s, The Industrial Revolution changed the economic and political focus from specifically trained skills to a faster less unique system of production(Manufacturing). However, in the 21st century, we exchange our skills and knowledge into different amounts and types of labor in which later deems your economic and social status. Today in American society, a person's credentials are judged on “having a university degree,” proving your abilities, skills, manners, follow through/determination. However, this is purposed to change as “artificial intelligence starts taking jobs away from white-collar workers. As well, America’s Bureau of Labour Statistics shows that four of the five fastest-growing occupations in the country involve personal care; none of those jobs require a bachelor’s degree.” (The Economist). 
To learn from the Industrial Revolution, we must put it in the proper historical context; the Industrial Revolution was a tipping point, as it signified the creation and use of steam power and industrial machinery in the 18th century, which allowed economic activity to take off. As Melissa Dickson claims: 
All “new” advancements replace some form of older technologies that had themselves occasioned similar anxieties on their introduction. Even Plato, as his oral culture began to transition to a literary one, was gravely worried that writing itself would erode the memory.
Some recent fears over technology, automation, and artificial intelligence lie in our privacy, security, and safety as humans as we interact with machines and/or robots, as stated by Moshe Vardi:
In addition to spreading across the world, automation and artificial intelligence are beginning to pervade entire economies. Inevitably, our current economy and society will transform in significant ways, with no simple fixes or adaptations to lessen their effects. The new fears brought from this come from  Accountants, lawyers, truckers and even construction workers – whose jobs were largely unchanged by the first Industrial Revolution – who are about to find their work changing substantially, if not being entirely taken over by computers.
This inevitably leads to fears over what responsibilities we should give to Automated or AI Robots, and these fears are heavily derived from theories of scientific books/movies. The famous artificial computer system HAL 9000, envisioned by author Arthur C. Clarke and brought to life by movie director Stanley Kubrick in “2001: A Space Odyssey,” in which an unforeseen corruption in the interpretation of transmitted commands, causes the system to malfunction and fail, which inevitably causes the unintended consequence of the death of the crew. In developing new concepts and technology engineers integrate different components together, in which they understand how each item works individually and can have theories on how they may be integrated together. Until the concepts are worked out over time through generations of refinement and configuration. The resulting systems have a chance of not being completely understood, and more often than not have a high probability of failing in unpredictable ways. One way of developing AI today is by Neuroevolution, as stated by Arend Hintze:
I create virtual environments and evolve digital creatures and their brains to solve increasingly complex tasks. The creatures’ performance is evaluated; those that perform the best are selected to reproduce, making the next generation. Over many generations, these machine-creatures evolve cognitive abilities.
Right now we are taking baby steps to evolve machines, but soon we will evolve machines that can execute more complex tasks and have much better ‘general’ intelligence. Ultimately we hope to create human-level intelligence.
One of the biggest growing fields in cooperation with  Artificial Intelligence is the medical industry. From around the 1960s, AIs have been influencing the data, nurses and doctors collect from patients, they have been used to adapt things as simple as survey questionnaires to more complex surgeries. “Instead of running the old risk of getting medical aid from an exhausted doctor or nurse, patients could get an examination or diagnosis from a robotic assistant with instant access to all medical knowledge ever collected. For, “Unlike a human doctor, AI is un-phased by numbers of patients, long work hours, and task redundancy.  Think of AI as sort of a super-human spell checker, assisting doctors by eliminating human error and relieving them of time consuming, monotonous tasks.”(Amanda Page)  – and as things continue to progress, patients may soon get surgery performed by a tireless robot with a perfectly steady hand.(Hintze) Imagine, in the not too distant future the promise of personalized healthcare and medicine; Where everyone's health care is tailored to their own medical history, genetic lineage, past conditions, diet, stress levels, and more. In fact, once we know enough about the patient then we may prescribe more specifically honed medications.(Daniel Faggella) Imagine a machine, a robotic humanoid, that of a butler or medical companion. A few examples are Disney’s Baymax from Big Hero 6, originally designed as a healthcare provider later adapted to help in security and defensive combat,  Commander Data from Star Trek:The Next Generation, An artificial intelligent and synthetic life form, and The Doctor on Star Trek: Voyager (though the doctor is an Emergency Medical Hologram) it pertains thoughts and focus of self-improvement but is later limited by confusion and results to asking humans for help. All three of these beings display some of the most heroic qualities and perform rather selfless acts in order to preserve the human race rather than their own life.
However, deep learning applications are known be limited in their explanatory capacity. In other words, a trained deep learning system cannot explain “how” it arrived at it’s predictions – even when they’re correct. This kind of “black box problem” is all the more challenging in healthcare, where doctors won’t want to make life-and-death decisions without a firm understanding of how the machine arrived at it’s recommendation (even if those recommendations have proven to be correct in the past)  …

The legal constraints of putting so much power in the “hands” of an algorithm are not trivial, and like any other innovation in healthcare, autonomous treatments of any kind will likely undergo long trails to prove their viability, safety, and superiority to other treatment methods. Faggella
A major limitation to adapting these concepts into an AI or robotic assistance of any form, and to allow it to “share” very sensitive data towards an individual's diseases and medical backgrounds, invokes upon HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, passed by Congress in 1996) these laws exist – among other reasons – to enforce Federal standards on any transmission of patient medical information. 
In conclusion, as Jaan Priisalu sais:
Here is what we shouldn’t do: Declare AI enhancement illegal. If we do this, the person who breaks the rules will have an enormous advantage. And he will be declared illegal. This is not a good combination. We also shouldn’t deny the fact of exponential AI growth. Ignoring means condemning us to be irrelevant when rules will be redefined.
We should not hope for favorable living conditions in a world of superintelligence machines. Hope is not a sound plan. Nor should we prepare to fight a self-aware AI, as that will only teach it to be aggressive, which would be a very unwise move. The best plan seems to be active shaping of growing AI. Teaching it and us to live together in mutually beneficial way.


The cultural experience I had and am going to write about was in the summer of 2016 for five weeks, then a break and another week and a half. I helped prepare for it, I attended it, and then I helped take it down. It was the Finn Fest in Naselle Washington. It is hosted every two years, and there is loads of preparing, planning, and investing put into it. Many of the local and out of town residents gather, plan, and help to prepare for this event. It’s a three day festival that includes lectures, dancing, folk songs, food, games, prayers, art and flower exhibits, and lots more.
My grandparents have a house down in Tokeland Washington and for the past 5 or more years my family and I have traveled down to visit and watch fireworks at the Shoalwater Bay Tribe for the Fourth of July. For me and hopefully the rest of my family, it is becoming a tradition to go down every year and watch them. Along with the fireworks there is also a parade. This year my family, my grandparents and I decided to participate in the parade. We decided to promote the upcoming Finn Fest for 2016. All of us except my grandma wore a Finn Fest t-shirt that displayed the current theme, time, and location for this year’s festival. My grandma who is the only Finn in our family, wore a traditional Finnish Dress. The design of the dress is thousands of years old and based on a character in the Finnish Epic Kalevala named Aino. My grandmother and I passed out postcards, I was on a self balancing Segway, the one without a handle. That was a blast and a real trial to see how well the product was along with my balance.
So around the Fourth of July I decided to stay down with my grandparents for the summer to help them. They also have a house down in Naselle Washington, where we stayed for this summer break. We stayed there to prepare and set up for the Finn Fest that was at the Naselle High School. My grandmother is extremely involved in this event because it helps preserve the history, memories, and culture of the Finns that moved to the United States. We gathered and arranged flowers, posters, snacks, chairs, schedules, and loads more.
For the most part I was there to help my grandparents with any and all tasks they wanted me to do. What I wasn’t expecting was how much fun I had, or how much I learned about this world’s history. It first started with simple housework like doing the dishes, making dinner, cleaning, getting groceries, and maintaining the trash. Then as more summer days passed my grandpa and I started having issues with their vehicles. They have 4 cars and a mini motor home. So thanks to the internet and what my grandpa knows about cars, I have learned a few things like how to tighten the fan belt of a Subaru, how to change the headlights, what to do if a pull behind trailer starts to fishtail/sway, and how to do a tune up on a car. Then as more of the summer passed and the festival grew closer. We cleaned the house to more detail by, moving couches and tables to vacuum, we cleaned sheets and blankets for guests, we dusted, and they taught me how to clean windows. As the week drew to a close and the festival was just a day or two away, we had to find and clean buckets so we could fill them with greens for flower bouquets. They had 5, 5-gallon buckets and 1, 3-gallon bucket that we filled entirely with greens from private woodland property. We already had permission because my grandma lived in the area and has know the families since she grew up. Once we filled the buckets, we took them to the school and unloaded them, Anita, my grandma knew right where she wanted them for easy sorting for bouquets, she had figured it out from years of great experiences.
Then my grandparents and I went back to their/our house, where we had made a list for which houses we had permission to pick flowers from. We also had to call some of the local neighbors to see if they had any 5-gallon buckets they could lend to us for a couple of days. After calling like 4-5 neighbors and only getting little amounts of 1-2 buckets, we eventually hit the jackpot when we called a high school classmate of Anita’s who lives just down the road. His name is Joe. After we got off the phone with Joe, we went over to get the buckets right away. We could then start cleaning and filling them up first thing in the morning, that way they had fresh water for the flowers. Then my grandpa kept asking Anita to call back the other people and tell them that we did not need any more buckets, and that we hit a jackpot so they will just be easier to return, and that way our neighbors didn’t have to go and find or clean their buckets.
In the morning, I took a shower and slipped into a pair of swim trunks I had taken to their house, I then proceeded to the kitchen and dining area to get to the back door, where we put the buckets we were borrowing from Joe. On my way to the door Anita “The Nicest Grandma there is” had prepared me a nice hot cup of coffee. It was not in one of their smaller mugs either, it was in a 5” height x  3”½ diameter. So after we drank the coffee and had seconds and some of us ate, I proceeded to the back yard to clean and fill the buckets. I think it took me all of 12-14mins to clean, and fill the buckets, and then it took me another 2-4mins to put them in the truck, there was about 20 buckets from Joe. I then went inside and took another shower, changed, had 2 more cups of coffee, and put my shoes on. I did all this before my grandpa was dressed. Anita however was almost finished preparing her hair and makeup.
As I am reflecting back, and trying to remember these events, I am realizing that I was getting a compliment on how fast and helpful I was at getting things done and ready without the thought even crossing my grandpa’s mind. He says “I am able to help in these ways because I listen, I am smart, and I am not afraid to act on what I know is right”, I also help plan what we do on a day to day basis so I can help do things without being asked. When my Grandpa said it, I believe I fully acknowledge what he said. But I don’t linger on any of the complements, the rewards, the anxiety, or stress from any unexpected turn of events. I think I might have a natural ability/talent to handle stress or emotion separately, more observantly, or maybe just slower. I now have a better understanding of the feelings I have given others, and the amounts of workload and stress I helped relieve.
There are millions upon billions of quotes that could be used here but a few of my Favorite ones are “It's Easier to Ask For Forgiveness than to Ask For Permission.”, The Biggest Regret people had Are “Not the Things They Did, But The Things They DIDN’T DO, The Risks they NEER TOOK, The Dreams they DIDN’T PURSUE”. If I ever get lost, scared, or worried, I remember my friends, my family, the ones I love, and my true motivation. With these and other quotes I determine the reason why I do any actions that I do. I love my family and friends, and I DO NOT want ANYTHING I DO to MESS UP our RELATIONSHIP.
Before we all got in the truck, our neighbor Linda Peterson, brought over two small trash bins for smaller flowers. She also donated 2 foam felt/clothed sunflowers, but one ended up getting stolen some time during the festival. It’s very sad and irritating that there are people like that in this world. After we gathered all the flowers from the neighbors, we then took them to the school and dropped them off. It was pretty close to the same spot as the other day, when we brought the greens. That way all of it was really easy to separate into vases, a table was also set up there with a few totes full of vases.
I guess we really are affected by those we are around. I am starting to be more stubborn as a Barnes or a Finn. I was the only one with a camera while we were arranging flower bouquets, and i wouldn’t let them have it, so they couldn’t get a picture of me arranging flowers, or the bouquets when they were done. I guess I wasn’t fully thinking of all the possibilities it could of had, certainly didn’t think I was going to do a paper on this event.
For the next couple of days we relaxed so we would be ready to meet and help settle in the guests coming to visit. The first group of guests arrived Thursday, a day before the festival, and the bedroom I was using for the summer was gladly given to them. They were a very nice and influencing couple, they also gave a lecture during the festival. I knew my own family would be arriving the same or next day. Luckily they got there the same day so I didn’t have to sleep on the couch, I did however for the last day.
For the first day there was a total of 10 people staying on the property, and 2 visiting. I was the waiter. I made sure everyone had drinks, food, and a comfortable atmosphere. On the second and third day there was a total of 12 people staying so it wasn’t much harder, but on the fourth and final day the 2 that were visiting the first day, came back to vist more before they left. We had to adjust seat a little but not much. This was all in the evening because during the last 3  days we were all at the Finn Fest.
While I was at The Finnfest on Friday, the first day. I got to see a film called “This is my Childhood; Finland at War”, then I walked around and helped a few people finish setting up. I then joined in the middle of a lecture called “The Finnish Civil War & Finland in WWII”, I didn’t stay in it for too long because I didn’t know any of the history the kind gentleman was talking about. So I went into the hallway/commons area where we had set up a photo exhibit, I was looking around at the photos and talked to a few people on how they thought the festival was. Then after the two lectures finished, I went into room 204 across the hallway  from the one i went into before. It was the ending of a lecture called ”You Say You’re Finnish-So How did you Get that Way?”. I then talked to Bill Lagerroos, the one that just finished the lecture and I asked him if being ⅛ Finn by my grandpa’s marriage counts, he laughed and replied, “Sure with Anita Raistakka you are an exemplary Finn!”
Then I wandered over to the gym where the tori booths were set up. I walked around and spotted a few items that I thought I might like. I wasn’t sure whether or not I was ready to fork up the cash to buy them, so I just looked around. Once I saw all there was to see, I then headed out to the courtyard where the National Anthem, Maypole Dancers, and Laulaa Out Loud Kids Choir was held. I really enjoyed the fact that the Maypole Dancers were not made up of just a certain age group, but compiled from all ages. The kids choir did an exceptionally great job for the songs they sung, they were in Finnish. At this time, my family was pretty much done eating food from the vendors, but my little brother couldn’t finish his Swedish Meatballs. So I had the delightful taste of a few of them. I then showed my older brother around the Troi, introduced him to Sally, a tori vendor selling carry bags that she had sewn screen door mesh onto. We then looked around the tori and left when we got back to the door. My brother then asked if I knew the password to the festival’s wifi. I did not but while I was helping Sally and her friend set up their booths, I heard Sally tell Jane that she had the password if she needed any thing connected to it. So My Brother and I went back and asked if we could get the password, which was quite an obvious one, being Finnfest-Am Festival.
Then my brother and I went back out to regroup with the rest of our family, but they had moved into the commons/photo exhibit. After my family had viewed the photos in the exhibit, and around the school we then headed back to my grandparent’s house. We had a pop up camping trailer that we put up and slept in the night before.
For Saturday, the second day of the festival, there were contests and games in the field/stadium area. There was a wife carrying contest, Nokia phone toss, and a boot toss. My grandpa really wanted to see the wife carrying contest, but there weren’t any signs to say when or where it was, so he sadly did not get to see it. However, we did make it in time to watch and participate in the phone toss, and boot toss. Only my little brother and sister participated in the phone toss, but by the time we met up and asked them how far they got, they forgot. There was at least 12 people who participated in the boot toss, 5 of which were from my family. I went first,  then my little sister, my little brother, my older brother, and my grandpa. I got the farthest out of my siblings, with a distance of 42.9 ft. , my little sister got 42.8 ft. , and my 2 brothers tied with 42 ft. , but my grandpa beat my distance by 20 ft. with a distance of 62.8 ft. We then proceeded to the commons and lectures area, where my grandparents split from the rest of the group. My family and I had stayed in the commons while my grandparents went to lectures. My family stayed in the commons long enough to watch the Astoria Scandinavian Dancers, then I took my brothers and sister around the tori, and introduced them to Sally. After my siblings looked around the tori, and I checked to see if the items I had spotted were still there, we went back in the commons to meet up with our parents to see what they wanted to do. Then we decided to go out into the courtyard and get something to eat.
My sister and I shared a Viking Meatball, which was 14 Swedish Meatballs with potato balls, instead of a regular 10 meatballs with fewer potato balls. My father had a Crepe with Jelly and whipped cream, my mother and older brother had a Rye Pastie, my little brother got Teriyaki skewers, noodles, and a salad. After my parents ate they went to watch a lecture titled “Our Sami Ancestors-Shamans, Drums, & Healing”. I was going to go with them but I wasn’t finished with my portion of the Viking Meatballs, so I just stayed with my siblings for the rest of the time. After that lecture finished, I took my whole family into the Tori and I showed them around. My little sister got a ring, and a towel saying “All You Need is Love and Flip Flops”, my little brother got a towel with a hawk on it. My older brother got a bag of Finnish mints that he shared with the rest of us, I bought my girlfriend a bracelet with earrings for her birthday, in September, and I got a mug for my grandpa.
By the time we were done in the Tori, all the main lecturers and performers had finished, so there was a lot of conversations going on around the school. It was a very bright, sunny, and  warm day. My family and I had gone back to my grandparent’s house to talk and catch up on how our summer was going, and what else we wanted to do for the summer. We had planned to go back later that day to watch a few of the performers and join in the dance. When it came time to leave, my dad was almost asleep and the others who could drive didn’t really feel like driving anywhere that day, so we just stayed to visited and play a game together. After the game was over, my grandparents had arrived at the house but they did not stay very long because my grandma was the hostess of a reception at Appelo Archive Center. After my mother and I finished helping my grandparents set up Appelo’s, we went back to the house and started to prepare dinner. We were having a pork loin covered in molasses and baked in the oven. It was slowly cooked until my grandparents and the rest of the company had returned from the Finn Fest or the reception at Appelo’s. I then set the table, prepared the drinks, and served everyone. I then snuck out with my family, and we stayed in our pop up trailer until someone had to use the restroom or needed refreshment. Then one or two of us would pop back inside.
On the third and final day of the festival, Sunday, my family had to go up to Spanaway, Wa. My dad had a doctor’s appointment early the next day, and they had a 2 1/2 hour or more drive home along with unloading all of their stuff. So they couldn’t stay for the last day sadly, but I continued to stay, so I could finish helping my grandparents. For the third and final day of the festival, there was a Worship Service at the Field/Stadium, followed by Coffee Hour in the Commons. During the Worship Service we sang two songs/hymns titled, “HOLY, HOLY, HOLY”, and “A MIGHTY FORTRESS IS OUR GOD”. Then we had a religious history talk given by the Pastor Kyle. Finally Mike Swanson, the chairman, officially closed to the 2016 Finnish American Folk Festival. Then we all piled into the Commons for some coffee and pastries before we started to clean up and return items from the festival. My grandpa and I had run into Carrie and Yan, one of the couples that were staying on the property for the festival. We talked, exchanged numbers, and said our goodbyes, because they had helped as much as they could before they had to leave. Yan had to be ready for work on Monday. To our surprise, they had already grabbed all of the vases that were scattered around the school and they brought them out front where we assembled them. They also went around and collected some posters and knick knacks/dolls of Anita’s. My grandpa stayed inside to ask and tell people that they could take some flowers on there way out, and he told them they could also donate some to the Salmon Creek Cemetery, to get rid of the fake flowers. I went out and helped pass out the flowers, I dumped out vases and put them aside for storage. After a while, my grandpa came out and we dumped the rest of the vases. We  then wrapped and sorted them for storage. We put all the vases in the truck, cleaned the table, removed the trash, and swept the leftover flower debris into a nearby trash can. We then had trouble with the hose faucet we used to fill the vases, the knob to control the water flow got turned on too far, so it took myself and 3 strong men to turn off the faucet. First I tried to turn it off, then another person named Justin, followed by Bill, and last James. After Justin tried, he called over to Bill and said “We needed your Manliness Bill”. Luckily  James was next to Bill and followed him over, because James was the one that was strong enough to shut it off. We then went home and relaxed for the rest of the day. We watched a movie on netflix called “The Giver”, It was based off a book published in 1993. It is also the book I have chosen to do for my school Summer reading assignment. It depicts a world/society as a utopia with “Sameness”, but it turns out to be a dystopia that lacks emotion, Knowledge, and opinions. It shows how culture, emotion, religion, and manipulation affects our world and society.
    The next day, we went back to the school to finish cleaning, but really all we could do was clean and conceal everything into one room, because the destination for some of the items were closed, so we just had to put them into a locked room at the school. We then took the tables, chairs, billboards, and easels back to Appelo’s. We cleaned up Appelo’s and took the leftovers, the silverware, and bottle openers back to our house. When we got back to the house, my grandma and I started to make dinner, as usual. we prepared the table, talked, and ate. Every night, after we talk, they go to bed and I to the guest side of the house, where I would call my family, work on school, or my robotics group. When I called my family, we would either watch movies, play games, or just talk. When we were watching movies or talking, I also worked on a website for my robotics group.
I wanted to help build and install my grandparent’s deck but they had to go get a door first. They got a fiberglass french door. They got the door in Tacoma when they brought me back up to my family for a week. My family had planned to go and visit my grandma and cousins from my mother’s side. They also do a gathering every 2 years but only for the Croft Family. We can’t always make it to them, because they are held down in Heber City, Ut at a cabin, and with a family of seven up in Spanaway, Wa, it is expensive and hard to arrange a way down. This time we planned to fly down to Utah August 10th, we stayed in Heber City until the 13th. We then went to midvale utah, to my grandma's house until early morning on the 15th. We then flew back home and in our calendar we had our dentist appointment on the 17th, so I stayed up at my house until after the appointment and then my grandparents came and picked me back up. My grandparents and I went back down to the Naselle house, and the Finish Contractor Larry Larson, had installed the door and had the main frame of the deck already built. So far I have not been able to help Mr. Larson, because I have been busy doing other work, like cleaning out the motor home, getting groceries, and other housework. I did finally get to work on the deck with Larry. I pulled nails and held boards in place, I switched power cords for different cutting tools, and I coated plywood with clear finish. I wish I could stay down and help them more, but it is nearing the end of summer and school is calling me back.
I am very glad and excited that I got to help prepare and setup the festival. It was very enlightening on how much the Finns did, and how much information is left out of the US history books. Now that I have learned some of this information and for my sophomore year I am going into a history class, I will be able to research and find out more on why, when, and how this information got lost or left out. I will then be able to give a lecture in one of the next Finn Fests and it will provide others with a better background on how selective the learning/teaching programs are in the US.
The numerous amounts of people that helped to set up these festivals are very well connected and stay in touch with each other as the days and years go by. It was very interesting and touching that people still socialize to this degree. I have lived in a small town in Illinois for 7 years while growing up, then moved into bigger cities/communities. As myself and technology has grown, I have noticed that people are becoming more disconnected and separated from themselves, their neighbors, and society. So it was very touching that some parts of the world still socialize and communicate in person.


