The cultural experience I had and am going to write about was in the summer of 2016 for five weeks, then a break and another week and a half. I helped prepare for it, I attended it, and then I helped take it down. It was the Finn Fest in Naselle Washington. It is hosted every two years, and there is loads of preparing, planning, and investing put into it. Many of the local and out of town residents gather, plan, and help to prepare for this event. It’s a three day festival that includes lectures, dancing, folk songs, food, games, prayers, art and flower exhibits, and lots more.
My grandparents have a house down in Tokeland Washington and for the past 5 or more years my family and I have traveled down to visit and watch fireworks at the Shoalwater Bay Tribe for the Fourth of July. For me and hopefully the rest of my family, it is becoming a tradition to go down every year and watch them. Along with the fireworks there is also a parade. This year my family, my grandparents and I decided to participate in the parade. We decided to promote the upcoming Finn Fest for 2016. All of us except my grandma wore a Finn Fest t-shirt that displayed the current theme, time, and location for this year’s festival. My grandma who is the only Finn in our family, wore a traditional Finnish Dress. The design of the dress is thousands of years old and based on a character in the Finnish Epic Kalevala named Aino. My grandmother and I passed out postcards, I was on a self balancing Segway, the one without a handle. That was a blast and a real trial to see how well the product was along with my balance.
So around the Fourth of July I decided to stay down with my grandparents for the summer to help them. They also have a house down in Naselle Washington, where we stayed for this summer break. We stayed there to prepare and set up for the Finn Fest that was at the Naselle High School. My grandmother is extremely involved in this event because it helps preserve the history, memories, and culture of the Finns that moved to the United States. We gathered and arranged flowers, posters, snacks, chairs, schedules, and loads more.
For the most part I was there to help my grandparents with any and all tasks they wanted me to do. What I wasn’t expecting was how much fun I had, or how much I learned about this world’s history. It first started with simple housework like doing the dishes, making dinner, cleaning, getting groceries, and maintaining the trash. Then as more summer days passed my grandpa and I started having issues with their vehicles. They have 4 cars and a mini motor home. So thanks to the internet and what my grandpa knows about cars, I have learned a few things like how to tighten the fan belt of a Subaru, how to change the headlights, what to do if a pull behind trailer starts to fishtail/sway, and how to do a tune up on a car. Then as more of the summer passed and the festival grew closer. We cleaned the house to more detail by, moving couches and tables to vacuum, we cleaned sheets and blankets for guests, we dusted, and they taught me how to clean windows. As the week drew to a close and the festival was just a day or two away, we had to find and clean buckets so we could fill them with greens for flower bouquets. They had 5, 5-gallon buckets and 1, 3-gallon bucket that we filled entirely with greens from private woodland property. We already had permission because my grandma lived in the area and has know the families since she grew up. Once we filled the buckets, we took them to the school and unloaded them, Anita, my grandma knew right where she wanted them for easy sorting for bouquets, she had figured it out from years of great experiences.
Then my grandparents and I went back to their/our house, where we had made a list for which houses we had permission to pick flowers from. We also had to call some of the local neighbors to see if they had any 5-gallon buckets they could lend to us for a couple of days. After calling like 4-5 neighbors and only getting little amounts of 1-2 buckets, we eventually hit the jackpot when we called a high school classmate of Anita’s who lives just down the road. His name is Joe. After we got off the phone with Joe, we went over to get the buckets right away. We could then start cleaning and filling them up first thing in the morning, that way they had fresh water for the flowers. Then my grandpa kept asking Anita to call back the other people and tell them that we did not need any more buckets, and that we hit a jackpot so they will just be easier to return, and that way our neighbors didn’t have to go and find or clean their buckets.
In the morning, I took a shower and slipped into a pair of swim trunks I had taken to their house, I then proceeded to the kitchen and dining area to get to the back door, where we put the buckets we were borrowing from Joe. On my way to the door Anita “The Nicest Grandma there is” had prepared me a nice hot cup of coffee. It was not in one of their smaller mugs either, it was in a 5” height x  3”½ diameter. So after we drank the coffee and had seconds and some of us ate, I proceeded to the back yard to clean and fill the buckets. I think it took me all of 12-14mins to clean, and fill the buckets, and then it took me another 2-4mins to put them in the truck, there was about 20 buckets from Joe. I then went inside and took another shower, changed, had 2 more cups of coffee, and put my shoes on. I did all this before my grandpa was dressed. Anita however was almost finished preparing her hair and makeup.
As I am reflecting back, and trying to remember these events, I am realizing that I was getting a compliment on how fast and helpful I was at getting things done and ready without the thought even crossing my grandpa’s mind. He says “I am able to help in these ways because I listen, I am smart, and I am not afraid to act on what I know is right”, I also help plan what we do on a day to day basis so I can help do things without being asked. When my Grandpa said it, I believe I fully acknowledge what he said. But I don’t linger on any of the complements, the rewards, the anxiety, or stress from any unexpected turn of events. I think I might have a natural ability/talent to handle stress or emotion separately, more observantly, or maybe just slower. I now have a better understanding of the feelings I have given others, and the amounts of workload and stress I helped relieve.
There are millions upon billions of quotes that could be used here but a few of my Favorite ones are “It's Easier to Ask For Forgiveness than to Ask For Permission.”, The Biggest Regret people had Are “Not the Things They Did, But The Things They DIDN’T DO, The Risks they NEER TOOK, The Dreams they DIDN’T PURSUE”. If I ever get lost, scared, or worried, I remember my friends, my family, the ones I love, and my true motivation. With these and other quotes I determine the reason why I do any actions that I do. I love my family and friends, and I DO NOT want ANYTHING I DO to MESS UP our RELATIONSHIP.
Before we all got in the truck, our neighbor Linda Peterson, brought over two small trash bins for smaller flowers. She also donated 2 foam felt/clothed sunflowers, but one ended up getting stolen some time during the festival. It’s very sad and irritating that there are people like that in this world. After we gathered all the flowers from the neighbors, we then took them to the school and dropped them off. It was pretty close to the same spot as the other day, when we brought the greens. That way all of it was really easy to separate into vases, a table was also set up there with a few totes full of vases.
I guess we really are affected by those we are around. I am starting to be more stubborn as a Barnes or a Finn. I was the only one with a camera while we were arranging flower bouquets, and i wouldn’t let them have it, so they couldn’t get a picture of me arranging flowers, or the bouquets when they were done. I guess I wasn’t fully thinking of all the possibilities it could of had, certainly didn’t think I was going to do a paper on this event.
For the next couple of days we relaxed so we would be ready to meet and help settle in the guests coming to visit. The first group of guests arrived Thursday, a day before the festival, and the bedroom I was using for the summer was gladly given to them. They were a very nice and influencing couple, they also gave a lecture during the festival. I knew my own family would be arriving the same or next day. Luckily they got there the same day so I didn’t have to sleep on the couch, I did however for the last day.
For the first day there was a total of 10 people staying on the property, and 2 visiting. I was the waiter. I made sure everyone had drinks, food, and a comfortable atmosphere. On the second and third day there was a total of 12 people staying so it wasn’t much harder, but on the fourth and final day the 2 that were visiting the first day, came back to vist more before they left. We had to adjust seat a little but not much. This was all in the evening because during the last 3  days we were all at the Finn Fest.
While I was at The Finnfest on Friday, the first day. I got to see a film called “This is my Childhood; Finland at War”, then I walked around and helped a few people finish setting up. I then joined in the middle of a lecture called “The Finnish Civil War & Finland in WWII”, I didn’t stay in it for too long because I didn’t know any of the history the kind gentleman was talking about. So I went into the hallway/commons area where we had set up a photo exhibit, I was looking around at the photos and talked to a few people on how they thought the festival was. Then after the two lectures finished, I went into room 204 across the hallway  from the one i went into before. It was the ending of a lecture called ”You Say You’re Finnish-So How did you Get that Way?”. I then talked to Bill Lagerroos, the one that just finished the lecture and I asked him if being ⅛ Finn by my grandpa’s marriage counts, he laughed and replied, “Sure with Anita Raistakka you are an exemplary Finn!”
Then I wandered over to the gym where the tori booths were set up. I walked around and spotted a few items that I thought I might like. I wasn’t sure whether or not I was ready to fork up the cash to buy them, so I just looked around. Once I saw all there was to see, I then headed out to the courtyard where the National Anthem, Maypole Dancers, and Laulaa Out Loud Kids Choir was held. I really enjoyed the fact that the Maypole Dancers were not made up of just a certain age group, but compiled from all ages. The kids choir did an exceptionally great job for the songs they sung, they were in Finnish. At this time, my family was pretty much done eating food from the vendors, but my little brother couldn’t finish his Swedish Meatballs. So I had the delightful taste of a few of them. I then showed my older brother around the Troi, introduced him to Sally, a tori vendor selling carry bags that she had sewn screen door mesh onto. We then looked around the tori and left when we got back to the door. My brother then asked if I knew the password to the festival’s wifi. I did not but while I was helping Sally and her friend set up their booths, I heard Sally tell Jane that she had the password if she needed any thing connected to it. So My Brother and I went back and asked if we could get the password, which was quite an obvious one, being Finnfest-Am Festival.
Then my brother and I went back out to regroup with the rest of our family, but they had moved into the commons/photo exhibit. After my family had viewed the photos in the exhibit, and around the school we then headed back to my grandparent’s house. We had a pop up camping trailer that we put up and slept in the night before.
For Saturday, the second day of the festival, there were contests and games in the field/stadium area. There was a wife carrying contest, Nokia phone toss, and a boot toss. My grandpa really wanted to see the wife carrying contest, but there weren’t any signs to say when or where it was, so he sadly did not get to see it. However, we did make it in time to watch and participate in the phone toss, and boot toss. Only my little brother and sister participated in the phone toss, but by the time we met up and asked them how far they got, they forgot. There was at least 12 people who participated in the boot toss, 5 of which were from my family. I went first,  then my little sister, my little brother, my older brother, and my grandpa. I got the farthest out of my siblings, with a distance of 42.9 ft. , my little sister got 42.8 ft. , and my 2 brothers tied with 42 ft. , but my grandpa beat my distance by 20 ft. with a distance of 62.8 ft. We then proceeded to the commons and lectures area, where my grandparents split from the rest of the group. My family and I had stayed in the commons while my grandparents went to lectures. My family stayed in the commons long enough to watch the Astoria Scandinavian Dancers, then I took my brothers and sister around the tori, and introduced them to Sally. After my siblings looked around the tori, and I checked to see if the items I had spotted were still there, we went back in the commons to meet up with our parents to see what they wanted to do. Then we decided to go out into the courtyard and get something to eat.
My sister and I shared a Viking Meatball, which was 14 Swedish Meatballs with potato balls, instead of a regular 10 meatballs with fewer potato balls. My father had a Crepe with Jelly and whipped cream, my mother and older brother had a Rye Pastie, my little brother got Teriyaki skewers, noodles, and a salad. After my parents ate they went to watch a lecture titled “Our Sami Ancestors-Shamans, Drums, & Healing”. I was going to go with them but I wasn’t finished with my portion of the Viking Meatballs, so I just stayed with my siblings for the rest of the time. After that lecture finished, I took my whole family into the Tori and I showed them around. My little sister got a ring, and a towel saying “All You Need is Love and Flip Flops”, my little brother got a towel with a hawk on it. My older brother got a bag of Finnish mints that he shared with the rest of us, I bought my girlfriend a bracelet with earrings for her birthday, in September, and I got a mug for my grandpa.
By the time we were done in the Tori, all the main lecturers and performers had finished, so there was a lot of conversations going on around the school. It was a very bright, sunny, and  warm day. My family and I had gone back to my grandparent’s house to talk and catch up on how our summer was going, and what else we wanted to do for the summer. We had planned to go back later that day to watch a few of the performers and join in the dance. When it came time to leave, my dad was almost asleep and the others who could drive didn’t really feel like driving anywhere that day, so we just stayed to visited and play a game together. After the game was over, my grandparents had arrived at the house but they did not stay very long because my grandma was the hostess of a reception at Appelo Archive Center. After my mother and I finished helping my grandparents set up Appelo’s, we went back to the house and started to prepare dinner. We were having a pork loin covered in molasses and baked in the oven. It was slowly cooked until my grandparents and the rest of the company had returned from the Finn Fest or the reception at Appelo’s. I then set the table, prepared the drinks, and served everyone. I then snuck out with my family, and we stayed in our pop up trailer until someone had to use the restroom or needed refreshment. Then one or two of us would pop back inside.
On the third and final day of the festival, Sunday, my family had to go up to Spanaway, Wa. My dad had a doctor’s appointment early the next day, and they had a 2 1/2 hour or more drive home along with unloading all of their stuff. So they couldn’t stay for the last day sadly, but I continued to stay, so I could finish helping my grandparents. For the third and final day of the festival, there was a Worship Service at the Field/Stadium, followed by Coffee Hour in the Commons. During the Worship Service we sang two songs/hymns titled, “HOLY, HOLY, HOLY”, and “A MIGHTY FORTRESS IS OUR GOD”. Then we had a religious history talk given by the Pastor Kyle. Finally Mike Swanson, the chairman, officially closed to the 2016 Finnish American Folk Festival. Then we all piled into the Commons for some coffee and pastries before we started to clean up and return items from the festival. My grandpa and I had run into Carrie and Yan, one of the couples that were staying on the property for the festival. We talked, exchanged numbers, and said our goodbyes, because they had helped as much as they could before they had to leave. Yan had to be ready for work on Monday. To our surprise, they had already grabbed all of the vases that were scattered around the school and they brought them out front where we assembled them. They also went around and collected some posters and knick knacks/dolls of Anita’s. My grandpa stayed inside to ask and tell people that they could take some flowers on there way out, and he told them they could also donate some to the Salmon Creek Cemetery, to get rid of the fake flowers. I went out and helped pass out the flowers, I dumped out vases and put them aside for storage. After a while, my grandpa came out and we dumped the rest of the vases. We  then wrapped and sorted them for storage. We put all the vases in the truck, cleaned the table, removed the trash, and swept the leftover flower debris into a nearby trash can. We then had trouble with the hose faucet we used to fill the vases, the knob to control the water flow got turned on too far, so it took myself and 3 strong men to turn off the faucet. First I tried to turn it off, then another person named Justin, followed by Bill, and last James. After Justin tried, he called over to Bill and said “We needed your Manliness Bill”. Luckily  James was next to Bill and followed him over, because James was the one that was strong enough to shut it off. We then went home and relaxed for the rest of the day. We watched a movie on netflix called “The Giver”, It was based off a book published in 1993. It is also the book I have chosen to do for my school Summer reading assignment. It depicts a world/society as a utopia with “Sameness”, but it turns out to be a dystopia that lacks emotion, Knowledge, and opinions. It shows how culture, emotion, religion, and manipulation affects our world and society.
    The next day, we went back to the school to finish cleaning, but really all we could do was clean and conceal everything into one room, because the destination for some of the items were closed, so we just had to put them into a locked room at the school. We then took the tables, chairs, billboards, and easels back to Appelo’s. We cleaned up Appelo’s and took the leftovers, the silverware, and bottle openers back to our house. When we got back to the house, my grandma and I started to make dinner, as usual. we prepared the table, talked, and ate. Every night, after we talk, they go to bed and I to the guest side of the house, where I would call my family, work on school, or my robotics group. When I called my family, we would either watch movies, play games, or just talk. When we were watching movies or talking, I also worked on a website for my robotics group.
I wanted to help build and install my grandparent’s deck but they had to go get a door first. They got a fiberglass french door. They got the door in Tacoma when they brought me back up to my family for a week. My family had planned to go and visit my grandma and cousins from my mother’s side. They also do a gathering every 2 years but only for the Croft Family. We can’t always make it to them, because they are held down in Heber City, Ut at a cabin, and with a family of seven up in Spanaway, Wa, it is expensive and hard to arrange a way down. This time we planned to fly down to Utah August 10th, we stayed in Heber City until the 13th. We then went to midvale utah, to my grandma's house until early morning on the 15th. We then flew back home and in our calendar we had our dentist appointment on the 17th, so I stayed up at my house until after the appointment and then my grandparents came and picked me back up. My grandparents and I went back down to the Naselle house, and the Finish Contractor Larry Larson, had installed the door and had the main frame of the deck already built. So far I have not been able to help Mr. Larson, because I have been busy doing other work, like cleaning out the motor home, getting groceries, and other housework. I did finally get to work on the deck with Larry. I pulled nails and held boards in place, I switched power cords for different cutting tools, and I coated plywood with clear finish. I wish I could stay down and help them more, but it is nearing the end of summer and school is calling me back.
I am very glad and excited that I got to help prepare and setup the festival. It was very enlightening on how much the Finns did, and how much information is left out of the US history books. Now that I have learned some of this information and for my sophomore year I am going into a history class, I will be able to research and find out more on why, when, and how this information got lost or left out. I will then be able to give a lecture in one of the next Finn Fests and it will provide others with a better background on how selective the learning/teaching programs are in the US.
The numerous amounts of people that helped to set up these festivals are very well connected and stay in touch with each other as the days and years go by. It was very interesting and touching that people still socialize to this degree. I have lived in a small town in Illinois for 7 years while growing up, then moved into bigger cities/communities. As myself and technology has grown, I have noticed that people are becoming more disconnected and separated from themselves, their neighbors, and society. So it was very touching that some parts of the world still socialize and communicate in person.
