The fears of technology and human interaction brought about by the Enlightenment Revolution and enhanced during the Industrial Revolution has both advanced and hindered the development of medical machinery and human and artificial intelligence. Throughout history, several of the world's most genius minds and organizations have worked in cooperation to advance technology. “Thus, it is believed that the state of technology has caught up with human potential. Largely unhindered by technical constraint, we live in an age where technology is unlocking untapped areas of human creativity” (3-reasons). According to datamaran.com, we are entering into a 4th industrial revolution: “Starting with the Manufacturing Revolution and the development of factorization. Then the more advanced Industrial Revolution which brought about steam engines and transportation infrastructure. The third revolution being the Computer Age, with the digitization of production for a bigger globalization of economics. Finally, we are brought to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, characterized by the fusion of technology that is blurring the lines between the physical, digital, and biological spheres. It is marked by emerging technology breakthroughs in a number of fields, including robotics, artificial intelligence, blockchain, nanotechnology, quantum computing, and biotechnology.”(3-reasons)
What distinguishes the advancements of the 4th Industrial Revolution from those of the Industrial Revolution is that back in the 1800s, The Industrial Revolution changed the economic and political focus from specifically trained skills to a faster less unique system of production(Manufacturing). However, in the 21st century, we exchange our skills and knowledge into different amounts and types of labor in which later deems your economic and social status. Today in American society, a person's credentials are judged on “having a university degree,” proving your abilities, skills, manners, follow through/determination. However, this is purposed to change as “artificial intelligence starts taking jobs away from white-collar workers. As well, America’s Bureau of Labour Statistics shows that four of the five fastest-growing occupations in the country involve personal care; none of those jobs require a bachelor’s degree.” (The Economist). 
To learn from the Industrial Revolution, we must put it in the proper historical context; the Industrial Revolution was a tipping point, as it signified the creation and use of steam power and industrial machinery in the 18th century, which allowed economic activity to take off. As Melissa Dickson claims: 
All “new” advancements replace some form of older technologies that had themselves occasioned similar anxieties on their introduction. Even Plato, as his oral culture began to transition to a literary one, was gravely worried that writing itself would erode the memory.
Some recent fears over technology, automation, and artificial intelligence lie in our privacy, security, and safety as humans as we interact with machines and/or robots, as stated by Moshe Vardi:
In addition to spreading across the world, automation and artificial intelligence are beginning to pervade entire economies. Inevitably, our current economy and society will transform in significant ways, with no simple fixes or adaptations to lessen their effects. The new fears brought from this come from  Accountants, lawyers, truckers and even construction workers – whose jobs were largely unchanged by the first Industrial Revolution – who are about to find their work changing substantially, if not being entirely taken over by computers.
This inevitably leads to fears over what responsibilities we should give to Automated or AI Robots, and these fears are heavily derived from theories of scientific books/movies. The famous artificial computer system HAL 9000, envisioned by author Arthur C. Clarke and brought to life by movie director Stanley Kubrick in “2001: A Space Odyssey,” in which an unforeseen corruption in the interpretation of transmitted commands, causes the system to malfunction and fail, which inevitably causes the unintended consequence of the death of the crew. In developing new concepts and technology engineers integrate different components together, in which they understand how each item works individually and can have theories on how they may be integrated together. Until the concepts are worked out over time through generations of refinement and configuration. The resulting systems have a chance of not being completely understood, and more often than not have a high probability of failing in unpredictable ways. One way of developing AI today is by Neuroevolution, as stated by Arend Hintze:
I create virtual environments and evolve digital creatures and their brains to solve increasingly complex tasks. The creatures’ performance is evaluated; those that perform the best are selected to reproduce, making the next generation. Over many generations, these machine-creatures evolve cognitive abilities.
Right now we are taking baby steps to evolve machines, but soon we will evolve machines that can execute more complex tasks and have much better ‘general’ intelligence. Ultimately we hope to create human-level intelligence.
One of the biggest growing fields in cooperation with  Artificial Intelligence is the medical industry. From around the 1960s, AIs have been influencing the data, nurses and doctors collect from patients, they have been used to adapt things as simple as survey questionnaires to more complex surgeries. “Instead of running the old risk of getting medical aid from an exhausted doctor or nurse, patients could get an examination or diagnosis from a robotic assistant with instant access to all medical knowledge ever collected. For, “Unlike a human doctor, AI is un-phased by numbers of patients, long work hours, and task redundancy.  Think of AI as sort of a super-human spell checker, assisting doctors by eliminating human error and relieving them of time consuming, monotonous tasks.”(Amanda Page)  – and as things continue to progress, patients may soon get surgery performed by a tireless robot with a perfectly steady hand.(Hintze) Imagine, in the not too distant future the promise of personalized healthcare and medicine; Where everyone's health care is tailored to their own medical history, genetic lineage, past conditions, diet, stress levels, and more. In fact, once we know enough about the patient then we may prescribe more specifically honed medications.(Daniel Faggella) Imagine a machine, a robotic humanoid, that of a butler or medical companion. A few examples are Disney’s Baymax from Big Hero 6, originally designed as a healthcare provider later adapted to help in security and defensive combat,  Commander Data from Star Trek:The Next Generation, An artificial intelligent and synthetic life form, and The Doctor on Star Trek: Voyager (though the doctor is an Emergency Medical Hologram) it pertains thoughts and focus of self-improvement but is later limited by confusion and results to asking humans for help. All three of these beings display some of the most heroic qualities and perform rather selfless acts in order to preserve the human race rather than their own life.
However, deep learning applications are known be limited in their explanatory capacity. In other words, a trained deep learning system cannot explain “how” it arrived at it’s predictions – even when they’re correct. This kind of “black box problem” is all the more challenging in healthcare, where doctors won’t want to make life-and-death decisions without a firm understanding of how the machine arrived at it’s recommendation (even if those recommendations have proven to be correct in the past)  …

The legal constraints of putting so much power in the “hands” of an algorithm are not trivial, and like any other innovation in healthcare, autonomous treatments of any kind will likely undergo long trails to prove their viability, safety, and superiority to other treatment methods. Faggella
A major limitation to adapting these concepts into an AI or robotic assistance of any form, and to allow it to “share” very sensitive data towards an individual's diseases and medical backgrounds, invokes upon HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, passed by Congress in 1996) these laws exist – among other reasons – to enforce Federal standards on any transmission of patient medical information. 
In conclusion, as Jaan Priisalu sais:
Here is what we shouldn’t do: Declare AI enhancement illegal. If we do this, the person who breaks the rules will have an enormous advantage. And he will be declared illegal. This is not a good combination. We also shouldn’t deny the fact of exponential AI growth. Ignoring means condemning us to be irrelevant when rules will be redefined.
We should not hope for favorable living conditions in a world of superintelligence machines. Hope is not a sound plan. Nor should we prepare to fight a self-aware AI, as that will only teach it to be aggressive, which would be a very unwise move. The best plan seems to be active shaping of growing AI. Teaching it and us to live together in mutually beneficial way.
