    Standing over the people of the recently destroyed kingdom, watching as the remaining towers and houses crumbled into dust. Hearing the slight murmurs and whimpers from the remains. The rest of the fleet spread out to finish the job. As we scoured through the kingdom’s remains. Scattering and tossing. Destroying and vaporizing. We discovered “THE AMULET OF POWER”. It layed deep beneath the fountain in the center of the kingdom.
    First you're probably wondering where we are. We are located in a star cluster in the Bin Wada solar region. The planet we inhabit(Snow Drifter 87) is under constant snowfall. There has been times where the group has been pulled into the air by a blizzard. They whirl around us creating massive snow boulders roughly 40 - 80 feet in diameter. When they die, or if we escape, we normally would have traveled a good 100,000 yards. The only way to repel blizzards and other forces of “EVIL” is with a force field or massive energy blast. 
    Due to our lack of power, we have collectively been trying to build our power sources. Our base is located at the bottom of the frozen ocean, 6,869 yards under the sea level. Being so low, we have remained hidden from the humans that attempt to roam the surface. Our current ways of collecting power includes steam systems that heat up the snow, river turbines, and from ourselves. It's quite an odd society we live in but we make do as we were programmed to. As the base’s power runs low, we lose the ability to produce more. Thus we frequently go out in search for more.
    The day we found THE AMULET OF POWER, we had raided 5 cities, and 37 kingdoms. We could have sustained ourselves for another month or so, after raiding the 5 cities. This had not fulfilled our need for power thus we continued our search. After the 32nd kingdom we had gained enough energy to sustain the base for approximately 4 years. With this much power, we could start to experiment and develop new power sources. Because we decided to experiment, we also wanted an extra supply in case something happened. As we went to collect our extra supply, I started to develop something I couldn't understand or control. It first took control over my lateral movements, then it gradually took over my upper movement and vocal outputs.
    I felt a warm empowering presence, as we destroyed more and more cities. When we arrived at the kingdom with THE AMULET OF POWER, I could no longer control my own movements. To make matters worse. I was still conscious. I arrived at the gate first. Slamming into it. As it fell, crushing the knights and guards behind it, we heard “Phlphpppp” coming from them. Dancing into the kingdom. Tremmors and terror came from throughout the civilians as they ran to safety. In the center a little girl and her family laid next to the fountain. As I stood over them, the little girls asked “why are you here?” Still unable to control myself, I replied “I am here for POWER!!”. Watching the family's response, made me realize that although humans are different, they are living as well. They curled up and backed away as if to hide. As I continued to watch them, they started to get anxious and jumpy, as they reacted to a knight sneaking up on me. The youngest stopped herself as she blurted “look.. o..u..”. Turning around to see, I jumped out of the way and the knight nearly hit the mother. Whatever had come over me had desperately wanted to fight, but I did not. Faced with the challenge to fight the knight, but also to regain my own control. With a swish of his sword, the knight continued to swing. Still having no control, I painfully took limb from limb off of the knight. Starting with his arms, I dislocated, shattered, and down right obliterated any remains of bone left in him.
    Slowly regaining control over speech and sensory inputs. I was able to stop myself from obliterating the family. I advised them to get out of the kingdom and to a safe location where they could hide at. At least for a while. I then asked “if you still trust me, I can help after my group leaves”. With worry and terror in their eyes, they replied “We have a bunker about 100 yards north of here, but how will we contact you?” I then disconnected my right index finger, gave it to Emilia the one that warned me. Showing them how to use the cloak and private locator, she gave me a hug and said “please hurry.” Helping them out of the kingdom before it was completely over run, I asked “Do you know where any of the power sources are.” “In the river and along the walls are turbines, on the top of the towers are snow panels, and there is some other source, but no one has known its location for ages.” replied the mother.
    Slowly losing control. I began to collect the turbines off the walls. The group had joined and taken control over the civilians. Not caring for the kingdom they started to demolish building after building. Insuring they had no way of restarting. I order the fleet to pile the collected supplies at the front gate. I then headed to the main power tower.
    Disconnecting the power junctions in the control panels. I was called out onto the overhang for more instructions. Standing over the people of the recently destroyed kingdom, watching as the fleet destroyed the remaining towers and houses. I order them to leave no trace left behind, except the fountain in the center. They started Destroying and vaporizing the debris. Hearing slight murmurs and whimpers, the rest of the fleet spread out to finish the job. As the humans tried to rebel and stop us, I also order them to take out the remaining humans. Once everything was gone. I noticed there was still power from somewhere. Confused where it could becoming from, I order them to destroy the fountain and tower. Deep beneath the fountain in the center of the kingdom. We discovered “THE AMULET OF POWER”. Its magnificent beauty and power, illuminated the entire kingdom and almost drove the fleet berserk. 
    In order to save the fleet, and forgetting I didn't have control over myself. I decided I would hold and protect it. I then order them to take the supplies back to the base. What we didn't understand or realize was why the amulet was so far under the kingdom. After the fleet left, and I was sure they wouldn’t follow, I started to Increase in height and strength. Confused why and how this was happening, I started to lose my own power of thought.
    Under my last will and power, I set a course to my finger and sent a message. It said “I will be arriving shortly, but I am no longer myself. Throughout today I have been losing control of my functions. I need your help understanding what is going on. I have sent my diagrams and instructions on how I was built. As I arrive, my finger will start to produce a beep, gradually getting louder the closer I get. When I arive, press the small flashing button on the bottom right, it will override all control and cut my power. Puting me in a sleeping state, where hopely I won't be able to do anything.
    Pursuing the course I laid in. I had lost all control. How or if I am still documenting this I don't know. I had been yanked into the biggest most fierce blizzard we have ever encountered. As I spun faster and faster, I could no longer see my arms, let alone the tip of my nose. What seemed like years had only been minutes. Then out of nowhere, it all stopped. Falling from 2,000 yards I hit head first on something that wasn't snow. Denting the back of my head and completely destroying my antenna. I regained consciousness, but couldn't feel anything.
    Laying there paralyzed. Wondering. Wishing. Waiting. I tried to contemplate what, why, or how I was infected. I kept reading and examining my code, searching for the variables or sections that were infected. Again trying to move. I got no response, not even the slightest movement. Eventually running low on power. I decided to divert the remaining power to my core processor, cutting my sensory inputs and preserving my conscious. Signing off for now.
.   .   .    .   .   .   .
    Blahm. Waking up in a new environment. I started to restore my reaming power. Regaining sensory inputs, starting with sight. I could feel A warm desk lamp hanging to the left above me. Focusing the blur and adjusting my color, I began to make out the view of a human. With his back toward me, I presume he is 5’ 3” has dirty dark silky blond hair. As he mumbled to himself, “Where did I put those” “No not here” “Are they over here”. He spotted that my eyes had opened, and were slowly following him. He stopped looking for whatever he was looking for, came over to me and asked “can you see?” Attempting to reply. I produced something of a high pitched ear bursting squeal. As I tried to adjust the frequency, I flashed a low battery warning. He noticed and went off. I hope he went to get a cord and docking station. 
    Waiting for a while, I fixed my vocal and visual settings. Nearing death. I shut my eyes to preserve what little power remained. Now understanding why I couldn’t move, I wondered how I could still feel things. Starting to charge, I reopened my eyes to see parts of my body hanging and laying on a table in front of us. The human walked around so I could see him,  asking what my name was I replied “krist JESUS”. He gave off a little chuckle, turning around to examine my broken antenna and dented skull plating. I asked him how he found me. He said “I was walking down one of my old hiking trails and found bits and pieces of a robotic body.” I picked a few of them up and put them in my pack, but as I was picking up the mechanical heart.” Giving the robot the thought of, I was the only one with a true mechanical heart. Was...is it mine? Did he make us? Where are we… am I ? Relistening to Gearlango’s (Char-lan-go’s) story. He said “I had noticed my old artistic signature wrapped around it, as if it were a protection, spell or a case built around it. I didn’t remember the design of the pieces, or even where the location would have been for me to make a heart.” Seemingly stopping there, I politely asked “what is your name?” 
    Frantically jumping to an immediate apology he said “I am so sorry. I forgot to introduce myself, I am Gearlango. I believe I am either your creator, or I helped in your making.“
    “Based on the parts I found it seems like you have done some upgrading. But a few of the things I found seem to have been made by me. I decided I would bring these back here to my lab, so I laid the ones I found or could bring back on foot, out over there.”
     Krist Jesus replied “Can you take me over there?” Proceeding to take me, Gearlango went to unplug the charging dock, I asked him “Do you know what we have done?” Standing back up with the cord in hand, he pick the docking station and myself up and carried us over to the other counter. As he crossed the room, he asked with confusion “what do you mean? What we have done? If you are referring to, leaving kingdoms and forming your own, gaining self awareness, defending for your own lives. Then yea I know what you guys have done. Is there something I missed?” Quickly jumping to a reply, I blurt out “Nope!” 
    Now over looking at the pieces Gearlango gathered, I noticed there was a piece here or there that didn’t belong to me. But for the most part I thought all my pieces were here. Gearlango went back to searching for something like when I first saw him. So I asked him “What are you searching for?” He gave a shrugged wave of his arm and replied lost of words “uuuh um ah, diagrams um schematics uh blueprints, something of instructions or notes.” I replied if I haven’t been damaged to badly, I can upload or project what diagrams and schematics I have.” Unsure of what to say and slowly agreeing he replied “su..re.. I guess we can give it a shot. It’s at least a place to start.”
    Looking at the pieces of mine, I tried to mentally see which section we had the most of. I had asked Gearlango to gather the pieces and put them in piles from head to toe. Slowly turning on and reformatting my projection modules, we decided to start with my feet and legs. Then gradually working our way up to my head. As we sorted the pile for my lower half, we were missing 37 parts, but were able to complete one leg and the bottom right and back center portions of my waist. We then continued through the piles until we could no longer assemble due to missing pieces. Though I wasn’t hole at the time, somehow, for some reason I felt at ease, peaceful, happy while I was around and with Gearlango. I felt… no, I know, that he understands me, he believes in me, he trust me, yet I have done nothing to earn it.
    As I watched Gearlango get drowsier and drowsier, I asked him if he would like to take a break and rest up till morning. He then agreed that it was probably for the best that he did get some rest. As he headed off to bed, I asked “do you have something I can look over or do to pass the time?” He ponder to himself looking at an empty wall, then went on down the hallway for about 5 minutes. When he had returned, he was carrying a metal case no bigger than a beer keg. Hesitatingly he opened it and slowly pulled out a triangular shaft. He then described and was a bit sceptical that it was still a prototype, but that he was willing to allow me to work on and test out his new antenna. Attaching it to where my old one fell off, was a bit difficult but he eventually got the correct adaptment built for me. He then prompted me with a demonstration and his notes and went off to bed.
    Waiting for day to come. I started to look over Gearlango’s notes to see if I could get a better understanding for this antenna’s capabilities. First booting and connections were super simple and fast. The GUI layout was a bit confusing and cluttered, but I can help work on that as I get use to the functions built into it. After sorting through and partially organizing the layout, I have found the ability to levitate, to transform, and to quantum tunnel. Not fully knowing what Gearlango has been working on, I continued to clean up the GUI and I looked for a history/edit log. The more I explored and experimented, the more it had to offer. I got so carried away, that it overwhelmed me. Losing track of time, it started to brighten up outside. I decided to do more work on the antenna latter.
    As the morning due struck the dawn broke grass, I prepared a list of tasks I thought might help get my body repaired faster. Not long after, was it that Gearlango got up to start his day, I provided him with personal time for a while, and I started to prepare my own demonstration on my findings/understanding of the possibilities this magnificent antenna could perform. As Gearlango started to wake up and interact more, I asked him about my outline for the day and what he wanted to do. After that he made himself some organic breakfast, and he had me try a new “ENERGY BAR” he had also been working on. While sampling the energy bar, I presented to him my view about the antenna. 
    After we finished eating, we went out to look for more of my body parts. Finding several parts, varying from quantum to Oberatie. We collected as much as we could then went off to lunch. While conversing at the restaurant my private locator activated. Forgetting I left my finger with the family form the Kingdom, it/I started to route directions In order to reconnect with it. I asked Gearlango if he would accompany me to find the family, in order to get my finger back, and to save the family. Agreeing to join me, I started to write a message to the family explaining who Gearlango is, and that I am no longer “INFECTED”. As we grew closer to my finger’s location, I told Gearlango the truth, and that we robots had done other stuff than just create our own kingdom. I told him about how I felt going to the kingdom, barging into the gate, killing the knight in front of the family, and how we destroyed every last bit of matte. 
    Upon arriving side story at the bunker, the family was no longer there. They left a note with my finger. The note read, “We heard other robotic voices above the bunker and got scared. We decided to take the secret tunnel to snowfall tower. Where my ------, “Paige” the pure goddess of snow, lives. She has the most beautiful snow white wings, and she is supper kind. 
    Taking my finger and the other spare parts we found before we came, we marked the bunkers location and went back to Gearlango's house. Back at his house, we separated and organized the pieces again. The next day, I then demonstrated and practiced what I have found out about the antenna. I tested the shape shifting while lighting the stove and preparing a breakfast for Gearlango. While he ate, I debugged the antenna, and we talked about how he first started working in in electronics and robotics. Assembling the parts, we completed my bottom half and repaired my skull. Still missing major parts to my body, I started to look through the remaining spare parts we have collected. Sketching out ways I could adapt them into a new body, I started to get curious what all Gearlango has built. Calling him over to review my scent he's and help me prepare the scraps, he again brought out more cases. We reassembled adjusted, and upgraded my body and added some final adjustments to the antenna and other upgrades.
    We then traveled back to the bunker in search for the family and secret tunnel. X-raying for the tunnel, we found that the bunker was far more advanced than it had seemed. Eventually finding the entrance, we had to speak this riddle then explain its meaning. “Haliphic mortiphinal anipalic mantinato hecro antaplastisma” it translates to “trust, love, loyalty allows for happiness”.
Traveling down the tunnel, we saw murals and photos of the family. The farther we went down the tunnel, the more we understood what they went through. As we exited the tunnel, I was more sure than ever that this family needed us, just as much as I needed them.
    Seeing the brightened road, and the illuminatingly vibrant and magnificent tower. I realized there was and is more to life than just gaining power and sustaining existence. As we were greeted into the stronghold, we met up with the family and “Paige”. “And by golly i do have to agree they are all beautiful and happy together.” As they settled us into the guest rooms in the palas, I tried to get to know them and explain what was happening when we first met. As we grew and looked for the cause, I had eventually gained their trust and loyalty. 2 days later, Gearlango and Jhepules (jch-nep-u-less), got engaged. With the blessing from “Paige” they got married the next day. Side story After we shared our findings and technology, they all agreed that all rights were reserved to Gearlango and I. Developing and advancing my abilities. Having to decide how or if I would rejoin in the robotic community. 
    Deciding that we should try to influence the other robots. We devised a plan to reestablish and renew the religion or base coding that we are to live in harmony with humans, our creators. and that we are to help spread, develop, and combined the knowledge and power around the planet. Taking a small klahn, including “Paige”, Gearlango, Jhepules, and a group of royal knights. 
    Off on our journey, I began to lose control again. The closer we got to the base, the closer we got to the lost “AMULET OF POWER”. The more rambunctious and evil I got, the harder it was going to be to persuade my robotic family that humans are safe, kind, grateful, and encouraging. They decided we would stop and set up a camp for the night. Allowing them to diagnose my random outburst of evil, and to rest, so they could follow and keep up easier. While Gearlango tried to diagnose me, he noticed my curtis kept getting hit with some sort of energy wave. Not having the proper tools to identify or counteract these energy waves, we headed to the nearest city or kingdom In hopes that they had a mechanic that could or was willing work with Gearlango. Arriving at the closest city. We were happily greeted again, even though they knew the reputation we robots have gave ourselves. The more I interact with humans, the more prominent and understanding I am of our base code/religion. 
    At the cities repair shop, we met James, the head mechanic. As James and Gearlango discussed what we have found and think to be the problem, I began to have second thoughts as to whether or not the other robots would accept me or the things/teachings I have discovered. A while after, James and Gearlango had prepared a prototype “armor/casing” that they believe will limit or stop the energy waves. Having no true way of testing it, we hoped for the best and continued to the base. Saying our goodbyes, and exchanging broadcasting signals, we went our separate ways. Returning to where we had noticed my out burst, the casing seemed to be working. Hastily closing the distance between us and the base, we or I noticed something familiar illuminating in bright orange and florescent red colors, off in the distance. Suggesting that we stop and rest for the last time before arriving, Gearlango and I went off to see if we could find whatever was glowing so beautifully.
    As we searched, I began to have thoughts, mean, evil, violently cruel, and downright insane thoughts. Slowly influencing me, I began to attack Gearlango. Unable to stop, I gave a off one last signal, telling Gearlango it was ok and probably best if he disabled me. While I was disabled, Gearlango found THE AMULET OF POWER, and almost immediately knew why I couldn't resist being under its influence. After upgrading myself and the casing, he installed the AMULET OF POWER, as my main power source and adapted my old power source to be a back up. Now fully protected and in control of the amulet, I could easily influence and control the rest of the robots.
    Arriving at the base’s entrance, we decided I should go first and they would wait for my signal. As I entered the main corridors, I called out for a base wide meeting. Ambushed by the horde of the group, I projected my journey and began my speech. Unintentionally using the amulet, it seemed extremely easy to influence my family. Fully having their trust, I gave the signal and the khlan joined me on the center stage. Congratulating. Thanking. Praising them. We gave them a true robotic welcome and accommodated living quarters for them, allowing them to visit and prosper as the creating god they are. 
    Years later, as more and more robots were enhanced, we began to surface and remix into the human’s societies. Keeping our independence, we helped advance the humans transportation and communication abilities. Allowing them to travel farther and faster than ever before. 
    On this note, I will leave you with what I have learned. First, don't jump to conclusions or judgements of others before you completely know and understand their story. Second, if there is true love and loyalty in a relationship, then no matter how bad you mess up, they will always be there for you. Third and final, forgive but don't always forget what others have done unto you, or what you have done unto them. I would like to thank those that helped me along my journey.
