It started in 5th period... as I peered out the window, my view seemed to be diminishing, as a strangely dense fog lowered around the school. The intercom came on and in the background I faintly heard the words, “Bra Brains Arrrrrg,” then the intercom cut out. Before I knew it, the entire room across from us, the cafeteria, and the office had been completely taken over by zombies. The zombies then tried to get in the room from the cafeteria, as they got closer to opening the door. The teacher went to stop them, while the students barricaded the windows. Before they could barricade all of them, the teacher got infected and the students had to bail. I picked up one of the computers and threw it out an unbarricaded window. I then ran to the workshop in the back of the school. After climbing the fence, I then tried to climb the connex(a big metal storage container) but couldn't. Now in the school workshop, I collected a hand saw, fire extinguishers, some paint, batteries, and our group's robot. It's a small robot, but extremely fast. Then having to decide whether or not to wait on school grounds or to try and go back to the house. I had no way of knowing whether or not the rest of the city, the state, or the world had been affected. Then going back to the house for our farm, tools, and cars. I survived 3 more years until…. Continued


Favorite vacation location
Not really sure, don't get to go one many vacation. With a family of 7 it's a bit hard to plan/budget for vacation due to expenses/travel. If those weren't a problem, my favorite vacation would be Hawaii, being next to the 37 parallel, being in the heat, the green plant life, the vitamin sources from the sun and the overall community connection would make for a very enjoy able vacation. I have not been here yet but I can't handle the cold, I have only lived in areas with bad weather conditions, I like to swim/ being in/next to water and a beach, but the beaches I have been to are always rocky, cold, dark from clouds/forecast, sooner cold waters, etc. I also like to study/watch the weather/moon phases/pressure changes, because I believe it affects the human body, including muscles, bones, hormones, etc. Hawaii has a very interesting geography and location, allowing it to have several different weather conditions, depending on where you are. With its unique geography and climate, I would be able to go outside more often, because it would be a more suitable/enjoyable environment.
